---
layout: post
date: '2012-12-26'
title: "Why Ruhoh?"
summary: "My journey through various personal websites, ending up with Ruhoh."
category: blog
tags: [development]
---

<div class="div.alert-box.secondary" markdown="1">
Update: You may have noticed that this blog is no longer powered by Ruhoh but instead
is running on Sculpin, a static blog generator written in PHP. There's nothing wrong with
Ruhoh, but PHP ended up a more natural fit for me to experiment with things... Next month
I'll probably have re-written it in node.js.....
</div>

#### How did I get here?

Over the years I've moved through a series of personal websites.

There was my very first site, built in the good old days of FrontPage Extensions and animated gifs, over a 56k modem I
remember being so excited at watching an animated spider bungee down the page... they were simpler times.
<!-- break -->
Next up, was an XML/XSL-T site built for a university module on XML, trying to demonstrate that content style and
separation could be achieved with XML, XSL-T and CSS. We're still not really there but thankfully we
have moved on (largely) from the fun of XSL-T. The grounding in standards, semantics and schema though were useful
pieces of learning which still apply today.

Shortly after, the turning point for me was an ASP.NET 1.0 site which was my first experience of server side programming,
 dynamic web-page generation and databases to build websites. It was effectively my own CMS, complete with discussion
 forum, and I shudder to imagine the code I wrote back then. As a first "proper" website though, it sparked me on the
path of where I am today, and I probably wouldn't have ended up in a career in web development if a friend hadn't
patiently explained concepts to me that set me on my way.

After a few aborted attempts at building handcrafted sites again, and a few years of abandonment of my site, I setup a
Wordpress site, which a few incarnations later is the site I'm replacing today. Interestingly, although I've played with
it a few times, I've never run my own site on Drupal, which given my current occupation might seem strange. However
whilst the power of Drupal is compelling, it's always felt overkill for the tiny amounts of content, functionality and
traffic my site is likely to attract. Added to that, coming home and doing more Drupal after a day in the office isn't
one that really appeals right now (unless it was fun stuff that would never appear on my site anyway :) ).

#### Why Ruhoh?

I'd heard a few
people talking and blogging about Ruhoh, and was interested in learning more about an alternative approach to building simple
websites. In a lot of ways, it takes me back to my roots of handcrafting sites. In the course of reading about Jekyll (and even getting 
as far as setting up this blog in Jekyll and playing with some of the theme API, I noticed Ruhoh was being actively developed as a replacement or alternative to Jekyll. At the moment (without having 
dug too deep) there seem to be few differences from Jekyll, and so with a spirit of adventure I figured I'd give the new kid a try.

A big benefit I see in both Jeklly and Ruhoh is being able to draft posts offline more easily than with Wordpress or another hosted CMS. Publishing
static HTML appeals as well, as although traffic isn't likely to be a problem for me there are simply fewer things to go
wrong - as long as my web host keeps Apache up and running then I'll have a site, and if they can't do that then it's
probably not a good sign. Simplicity and ease of authoring and publishing appeal as if I'm going to blog then I want to do it quickly and wherever I get the chance.

Most importantly though, it's something to learn, an approach to play with, and incorporates some tools and technologies
I've not played with yet. After all, isn't that what all devs want for Christmas?
