---
layout: post
date: '2013-02-04'
title: "Pi-vide: Building a Raspberry Pi sous-vide"
summary: "Starting the journey of buiding a Raspberry Pi controlled sous-vide (water bath)."
category: blog
tags: [raspberrypi]
---

Well, I'm not doing so well at keeping up the regular blogging, but I hope that this series of blog posts will keep me going for a little while.

For Christmas, I was lucky enough to get my hands on a Raspberry Pi Model B, which I'd been looking forward to for some time, without really knowing what I was going to use it for. The well-trodden path of a media centre appealed to me, although most of my needs on this front are catered for by my Apple TV and Xbox 360 (not very open source of me, but hey, sometimes products just work). However, I've also been a long time fan of the theory of sous-vide cooking (slowly cooking food in a vacuum sealed bag, in a bath of water set to the temperature you want the food to end up at), but balked at the price of commercially sourced sous-vide machines. "It's just a water heater" I thought to myself... "How hard can it be?".

Well I'm going to find out, starting out with a reasonable amount of Linux experience (although server management rather than I/O), A-level Physics to cover off the electronics (largely forgotten) and a burning desire not to burn my house down in the process.

Here's the gist of my plans:

* Connect my Pi to a Gertboard (for safer use of the GPIO ports and general geek hope that I can do something else cool with it later)
* Hook up a temperature sensor (waterproof of course) and get the Pi reading the temperature
* Log temperatures at regular intervals and decide on a storage mechanism
* Graph the temperature changes over time, self updating to show the most recent. Might use python for this, or PHP, or maybe even write an Android App to consume a data feed from the Pi (no real reason for this other than having a go at writing an app...)
* Figure out how to use the Pi/Gertboard to turn on a power source... which will power a water heater
* Once that's done, getting it to turn it off will hopefully be trivial
* Put it all together and have a script where I can set a target temperature which the Pi monitors and turns the heater on and off as required to maintain the temperature.
* Maybe expose this as a service and add starting and stopping this to the hypothetical app

The first few items should be pretty straightforward, but the area I'm not so confident on is controlling mains power. I've read a bit about relays, which could work, and also might try an IR based power controller which might get the approval of the health and safety gurus in my life.

I'll keep this site up to date with progress, and photos, and will release any code I write to GitHub.

Wish me luck!

